>>And now, world-renowned
spirit medium, James Van Praagh.
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
Thank you.
I love the enthusiasm.
Thank you very much.
And thank you also
very much at home
for watching for another
episode of "Spirit Talk," where
I take you one step
closer to Heaven.
And today, I thought it
would be a very good idea
to talk about something which
many, many people ask me about.
And that is
protection-- protection.
And they say, you
know I do psychic work
or I walk around
the world every day,
and do I need to protect
myself from energies
that are out there?
Well, I say yes and no, in that
we do walk in a sea of thought.
Remember that
everything is thought.
Everything is created
with our thoughts.
The world around us is
created with the thoughts
that we send out.
Now, here's something that I
want to share with you guys.
Are you ready?
Here it comes.
OK.
Thoughts are things.
Thoughts are real,
tangible things.
Now in this three-dimensional
world, we don't see thought.
We see each other physically.
We see the physical world we
live in, the houses, the trees.
We see the physical things.
But there are a
multitude of dimensions.
Yes.
And in another dimension,
it is a world of thought.
So thoughts are seen.
So from the world of the
spirit, from their perspective,
they see all the thoughts
that are around you.
They see thoughts that
people send to you.
And it's a very, very real,
real world of thought.
And they live also in
a world of thought.
Now, this is so interesting.
How many people in this audience
today, before you got here,
took a shower or a bath?
Raise your hand.
OK.
Some of you are not
raising your hand.
That's fine.
I won't point you out because
your neighbor probably knows.
We're very concerned, a lot of
us, about our physical well,
our physical health, our
physical cleanliness.
And we wake up every day.
We clean ourselves-- the
hygiene, physical hygiene.
What about your spirit hygiene?
What about cleansing
your spirit body?
What about the
auric field that's
around every living person?
So today, I'm going
to share with you just
a different insight, a different
perspective, just something
to think about-- that we live
in this world of thought.
When someone thinks of you, when
they have a thought about you,
where does that thought go?
Directly to you. [SHOO]
Thoughts are like bullets,
and it goes to the
intended target.
[SHOO] It goes right there.
So many times when I
look at people-- and not
for you particularly
here today-- yet,
yet-- but many times I'll see
people, and all around them,
the auric field, I'll see
thoughts from other people.
I call them foreign thoughts--
other people's energy.
Have you all heard
about psychic vampires?
Yes.
And I'm sure you know a few
psychic vampires, right?
We all know some psychic
vampires-- people
that you go to and you
feel drained afterwards.
Like, oh my gosh, I don't
want to be around these people
anymore.
I feel drained.
I'm exhausted.
And that's just
your husband when
you wake up in the morning.
But we all know them, right?
You all know these people.
And you say, I just got to
get away from these people.
Because there's
something about them.
They just drain.
They pull the energy, right?
And it's really-- and it
happens to a lot of us.
Now the more aware we
are that this exists,
the better we can live in
an everyday environment.
So just a little story
I'm going to tell you.
It was a really
interesting story, and one
which stays with me throughout
my whole career of mediumship.
Many, many years ago when I
was doing private readings,
I remember I had an
afternoon reading.
And I prepared the space for it.
I was all set.
I had the incense going.
I had the music going.
I put myself in
a nice meditative
space, a nice receptive space.
Hmm.
It was all good.
And the doorbell rings.
And I answer the door.
And there's a lady
standing there.
And I looked at this lady.
I went, oh, my gosh.
Oh, my gosh.
This lady's aura was in tatters.
Did you all see-- you've
seen Charles Schulz.
Remember Pig Pen,
Charles Schulz?
Around this lady, her
aura, which is really
like an egg-- usually
an egg shape of light.
And it's a membrane
egg shape that's
protecting us energetically.
This lady's aura had tears in
it, spots in it, torn all over.
It was gray and brown.
And just, it was a
wreck-- tattered.
Tattered is the only word.
And I felt so sorry
for this lady.
And of course I said, please
come on into my house.
Make yourself at home.
And she did.
She sat down.
And the moment she sat
down, she started crying.
She started crying her eyes out.
And she said, James,
what's wrong with me?
What's wrong with me?
I feel so depressed
all the time.
And I can't sleep at night.
And I'm just worried
about everything.
I'm tired all the time.
What's wrong with me?
And she was crying her eyes out.
And I looked at her.
I looked at the
auric field-- what
was left of that auric field.
I looked at everyone's
energy on her.
And I said to this lady, it's
not what's wrong with you.
It's who's wrong with you.
Whose energy are you
carrying with you?
Whose energy are you carry
with you and making your own?
Yes.
So it's very much
like if you drive
on a highway or a freeway,
70, 80 miles per hour.
And you keep on going.
Eventually, you're going
to have to stop and clean
the headlights off,
because bugs get attracted,
and dirt gets attracted
there to that light.
Same thing with your light.
Many times, other
people's energy
will sit in your field--
in your auric field.
And if you don't
protect yourself or have
an awareness or a mindfulness
about cleansing that and being
responsible for your
spirit well being,
you can walk around life with
other people's energy on you,
sucking away your own prana,
your own energy of life.
Isn't that interesting?
As you are all sitting
here going, oh no.
So what I did with this lady was
I didn't say anything to her.
I was working with her.
And I was removing
energy from her field
without her knowing it.
I'm talking to her, and I'm
just taking the energy off.
I'm taking it off
psychicly or energetically,
I'm pulling it off her.
And there's ways of doing that.
And I was pulling off the
energy and not telling her.
I'm just talking to her.
Probably about 10
minutes, within 10 minute,
she said to me, are you
doing something to me?
Because I'm feeling
like my old self again.
I feel young again.
What's going on?
And a smile returned
to her face.
And it was amazing.
And I said to her, well, the
energy that you've been feeling
and whose energy you've
been riding with,
has been your son's, your
daughter's, your neighbor's,
your employer's.
She goes, oh, yes, yes.
And she remembered an argument
she'd got in with them.
She wasn't getting along
with certain family members.
And it was all sitting there.
Because thoughts are things.
This is energy.
So there's got to be
ways-- and today, I
want to really share with you
different techniques which
you can use in order to-- I
don't like to use the word
"protect," but just
to be responsible
with your energetic field.
Because when we say the word
"protect," it means, oh my,
there's something
negative or fearful.
We go down to that
fearful level.
And I don't want to
say it's fearful.
It's being responsible.
It's being responsible
for your well
being on your spiritual, mental,
physical, and emotional levels.
Make sense?
Yeah.
So today, I'd like to
share with you first,
the first technique is through
meditation-- guided meditation
that I'm going to help you with
and share with you to start
to recognize certain
energies that's in your field
and release them.
Cool?
Yay.
Let's get started.
And everybody at home, you
can also do this of course.
And if you want to close your
eyes, that'd be the best thing.
Because I find that when
your eyes are opened,
your senses are not fully
there, not fully aware
of the inside which we're
going to be working with
and the auric field.
So just sit comfortably
with your eyes closed.
And you can listen to the
music behind my voice.
We're going to play that.
And just give
yourself this moment
to just be with yourself
and your own energy.
So I just want you to listen
to the sound of my voice
and the music behind my voice.
And just be mindful of
your feet on the floor.
Be mindful of your
legs, your backs
in the chairs, your shoulders
and your arms, your chest,
your stomach, your neck,
your head, and just relax.
Just relax.
Try to relax.
Try to send out a
thought from yourself,
generating a thought of
relaxation, of peace,
of calmness.
That's all you have to
do-- with the realization,
the remembrance that
you indeed are a soul,
a spirit having a human
condition-- not the other way
around.
And that you are a
beautiful bright star
of light-- a beautiful
golden light.
As you sit in this
seat, your energy
is so much more than
just this physical body.
You shine.
You shimmer through realms and
realms of life and existences.
You are god.
You are the creative spark.
You are that beauty.
So as we sit together and you
hear the sound of my voice,
just remember this realization
that you are indeed
this god spark,
this light being.
To bring that further
into your awareness,
we're going to use the breath.
And as you inhale, I
will guide you to inhale.
Inhale through your nose and
imagine a beautiful fountain
of gold light coming
into the top of the head,
swimming through every
part of the body,
illuminating every cell,
every muscle, and every organ
with that beautiful
golden light--
the god spirit, the light
spirit, the oneness spirit,
the loving spirit.
And as you exhale
out of your mouth,
you're going to envision
a gray mist which
represents any
old energies which
are a part of you,
any old belief
systems, any
limitations, any fears.
You're going to release,
relax, and let them go.
So together let's bring in
that beautiful golden light.
And inhale.
Beautiful.
Bring it into the body
and all around you.
Holding it two, three, four.
And exhale.
And let it go-- all that
gray mist goes down,
falls down upon to Mother Earth,
where she recycles it to love.
Energy is always being used.
And Mother Earth is a
wonderful, wonderful element.
She always wants to assist
us and sustain our lives.
Think of Mother
Earth as a magnet.
She pulls the denser,
heavier energies--
the energies that
are not yours--
pulls them away from
you to recycle to love.
So together again, let's imagine
this beautiful golden light
as we inhale, coming
through the body.
And inhale.
Then hold it two, three, four.
And exhale.
Let it go.
Good.
Very good.
You feel that good.
And just one more time.
And inhale that
beautiful golden light.
And inhale.
And hold it two, three, four.
And exhale.
Let go of the old.
Let it go.
Feel renewed and refreshed,
bright and light-- bright
and light.
And now with your
eyes closed, I would
like for you to imagine that
you are going to step out
of your body-- stepping
out of the body,
and turning, and looking
at the physical body--
just looking down at
your physical bodies.
You're standing in
front of yourself.
And as you do that,
I just want you
to become aware of scanning
the top of the head,
becoming aware of
scanning the shoulders.
And just feel anyone else's
energy in your space.
Whether they're in the spirit
world, in the physical world,
whose thoughts are
upon your shoulders?
Whose thoughts are
upon your head?
What thoughts are all
around that physicalness
of you and your auric field?
Just become aware as you
step out of that body
and you're looking
down, kind of scanning
the body from the
top of the head,
now going down to the throat.
Do you find any
foreign energies,
anyone else's energy
stuck around you?
If they are, just use your
hand like a scoop, [SHOO],
imagine, like a scoop,
and pulling that energy,
sending it back to Mother
Earth, sending it down.
Let her recycle to love.
Great.
Many times around the throat,
people's energy's there.
That's right.
Yes, you can.
That's great.
And then the heart also.
A lot of the emotions
that you hold on
from other people,
old relationships that
mightn't have been fulfilled,
grieving situations
that you're holding onto.
Just imagine pulling them
away from that heart space,
and also in your solar
plexus-- very strong
psychic center, the
seed of knowingness.
Any foreign energies
that are not
in atunement to your vibration,
let them be released.
Release old energies.
Release old emotions.
Release old expectations.
Release expectations of others.
Release fears that other
people have placed upon you,
and that you have made
your own-- whether it's
your parents, whether it's your
family, whether it's employees,
employers, whether it's society.
Release those peoples' energy.
Let it go.
Let Mother Earth
recycle to love.
And you will notice, you'll
feel them peeled away,
almost like an onion skin.
You feel that?
Yes.
And you'll begin to feel your
own self emerging, getting
brighter, and
brighter, and brighter.
And now what I'd like you
to do as you sit there,
is I want you to remember
today anyone you spoke
to-- anyone you spoke to
in the hallway waiting
to come into the show.
And people at home, anyone you
spoke to today, whether it's
on a telephone,
whether it's in person.
Just realize that
everybody you speak with,
you interact with face to
face, on the telephone--
you're taking on their energy.
So right now, I want you
to send back their energy.
Send back their
energy, back to them.
However you want to do
that, just acknowledging
them and sending it back
with love-- sending it back
with love.
Send back the energy
they left there
with you, the
conversations that you had.
Just send it back with love.
Just do that for a
couple of moments.
You'll notice peeling away.
It's a good one.
This is a good one.
Right.
And get to the point where
you are right now in this room
and back to your own self.
Great.
And now I'd like you to envision
those same people that you
had an interaction with, I want
you to get your energy back
from them.
And you'll start to feel it
come back to you, like stardust
coming into the
top of your head.
And fill yourself back
up with the energy
that you depleted by
giving it to somebody
else in your conversations
and in your interactions.
With all the
interactions, you'll
begin to feel like this
beautiful starlight come in.
Did you feel that?
Right.
Very good.
And send love to every
one you interacted
with today or this week.
Very good.
Great.
And now, I want you just to
concentrate on your heart--
this beautiful space of
love, this lovely center
of unconditional
love and healing.
Imagine a beautiful green
light emerging in front of you
from your heart
center and spinning
around the top of your head
to the bottom of your feet.
Spin that green light around.
And any excess
energy in your space
that does not belong to you
goes right down to Mother Earth,
once again to be
recycled to love.
And feel the love who you are.
Fill that glimmer, that glimpse,
that light which is you.
Look at the smiles.
Love, by its very nature, is
not to keep, but to share.
So please send that beautiful
green light of energy
to the person on
your right side.
And soon the entire room is
filled with this loving energy.
And we ask, divine
heavily parent,
we ask your blessing
on this meeting today.
Dear spirit friends,
draw near to us.
Spirit friends, be clear to us.
Spirit friends, slow
down your voices.
When we hear, the
heart rejoices.
Give us glimpses of eternity.
Let us know that you are free.
Give us names, and
facts, and places.
Help us to understand
Heaven's graces.
Send your thoughts upon me
with emotion and simplicity,
as we sit together in
peace, love, and harmony.
And so it is.
And slowly open up your
eyes and be as one.
Oh, you look so much
brighter and lighter.
And you at home, whoa.
You know, it's so interesting
because-- how do you feel?
Different.
Lighter, right?
You feel lighter?
Yeah.
Very, very good.
So I love it, because
it's just an energy
I like to work with when you
don't carry other people's
stuff around with you.
It's so hard living in
this human world as it is.
But then, when you carry
someone else's stuff with
you-- and you don't have
to carry your kid's stuff.
You don't have to carry
your partner's stuff.
You can love them without having
affect you in a negative way--
that you can shine
your own energy.
You know what I mean?
You understand this one?
You're all about mom.
You're all about being a
mom, mom, mom, mom, mom.
Right?
Yeah.
I see it.
OK.
Before we continue
on, I'm going to do
a-- I'll bring a person up
here for another exercise.
But a couple of questions that
you might have, if any of you
have questions you'd like to
ask about the exercise or about
the psychic work as far
as the protection work,
you know, or owning
your own space.
Any questions you might have?
Yes, my love.
Would you mind standing?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Hi.
>>VAN PRAAGH: What's your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Amber.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hi, Amber.
What's your question honey?
>>AUDIENCE: So when you
discussed about people
we've talked to in
this reality level.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes, in the
physical world right now.
>>AUDIENCE: In the
physical world,
does it also with
the spirit world,
do they attach to
our auras as well?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ah, a great,
great, great, great question.
I got to tell you something,
which this is the way it is.
It's a natural law.
And the natural law
is like attracts like.
And I find that if
you're owning your space,
and you really are
coming from this loving
vibration, this
loving energy, and I
don't like to use
the word protection,
but I'm going to be
responsible for that space
and being loving
and light energy.
You will attract only that
which is on that vibration.
And if people love
you, they're not
going to attach
themselves like that.
And they have their own
lives on the other side
of life, their own.
Really, we are much,
much bigger and more
than just this physical world.
This is such a small part
of who we are as a spirit.
This is just a teeny part of us.
It's like an inverted triangle
and this the very tip,
and it just goes [WHOOSH].
So they have so many
more things to do.
Now saying that, they will come
around you and influence you,
project thoughts.
They'll many times
will try to give you
inspirations, if you will, and
try to send, like, I love you,
take care of yourself,
or whatever it might be.
So there's many
times the thoughts
that we have every day
are coming from the spirit
world, who are coming
close to that auric field
and sending you those things.
But they're not there to
attack you or hurt you.
Now I'm going to say
something, and people
that are watching this
have also asked me this.
Can someone possess you?
Can someone really attack you?
I believe that there is no evil.
I think evil is created in
man's mind, in human's mind.
I don't believe
that's such a thing.
But I will say that we
are creating our world.
We create with
everything that we think.
I also will tell you
that as like attracts
like, if you have negative
thoughts and bad thoughts,
well, that's what you can
create in the atmosphere,
and like will attract like.
So you might attract negative
people in your life experience,
in your physical world and
in the spirit world, maybe
those unevolved beings.
But everybody in this room
and there watching, not.
Because you're already
at a realization
that there's something more.
And I believe there's really
just-- I believe there's love.
I don't believe in evil.
I really don't.
It's everything in the mind.
It's what we create
with our minds.
So do we have a clean
mind, a dirty mind?
But that's why I want to say,
also, with protection, that you
need to make sure that you're
responsible for your work
and for your bodies
and your spirit.
OK.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Thank you, darling.
Anyone else have a question?
OK my lovely lady,
you have a question?
Would you mind standing?
What's your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Cheryl.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hi Cheryl.
Welcome.
>>AUDIENCE: I noticed when I
was clearing out the energy,
you told us to use our hands
and draw the foreign energy out
of our space.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right, right.
I watched you do it.
And I said remember
I said step out
of the body and kind of
imagine you're doing it.
And you also did it with
your physical, which is fine.
You went like that, and you
scooped some stuff out there
in the chakra of the throat.
Fine.
That's good too.
Yeah
>>AUDIENCE: And the
question that I have is,
I noticed that sometimes the
energy that I was pulling out
was easy to pull out,
and sometimes there
was energy that was a little
more resistant and more
harder to pull out.
And I'm just a little curious
about why that would be,
and if there's any
techniques to work
with the more resistant energy?
>>VAN PRAAGH: You might find
that when you do the cleansing
exercise and when you do
the protection, as you said,
there'll be some energies
you can easily remove,
and others-- especially
in the emotional centers--
might be harder to get out of.
There also can be cords.
We call them cords, where
people have-- they're
kind of like got right in there.
How many people here
have lower back problems?
Some people here have
lower back problems?
So lower back problems
usually is the first chakra,
which is the base of the tail.
And guess what that
is, that center?
That's your survival.
And who in your life is looking
to you for their survival?
So if there are
people in your life
that are depending upon you for
their survival, their security,
many times you'll have
their energy right here.
And it's called a cord stuck
into your chakra, that energy
center.
And that my friend,
is sometimes harder,
because it's been there
for years perhaps.
And sometimes you
make-- and that's
what I said earlier-- you
make their energy your energy.
So how do you do that?
You have to be consistent
with using the protection,
using the exercises
to scoop it out.
Or another one I like
to use, I imagine
a beautiful golden scissor.
And I just cut the
cords-- ch-ch-ch-ch.
And send it back
to Mother Nature.
>>AUDIENCE: Very good.
Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
Let me work with you.
You want to come up?
I want to work with you
a little bit more, too.
I'll show you another technique.
So, I'm going to give you
Chery, my lovely Cheryl.
Cheryl's up here.
And you guys in the audience
can do this, and you at home
also can do this.
This is another
technique for protection.
And I love this one.
And you can do this.
I do this every single
morning in the shower.
I find it easy in
the shower because I
can remember it that way.
So in the morning
when I take a shower,
I will cleanse my physical body.
And then I stop.
I let the spray hit
the top of my head.
So imagine that.
So I am going to have you
close your eyes right now.
And what I want
you to do, Cheryl,
is I just want you to once
again to get into your space,
centering yourself.
And I really want you to just
connect the bottom of your feet
to Mother Earth.
Just imagine.
Use your imagination.
And envision like the roots
going down to Mother Earth.
And everybody here do that, too.
Now, Mother Earth is wonderful.
She's nurturing.
She's loving.
She's secure.
She's like a magnet.
She'll take all that
dense, heavy energy that
doesn't belong to us,
and she will recycle it.
So you got it.
And see the shift of
energy right away.
OK.
So now my love, I just
want you to envision
right above your head,
coming out from the sky,
from the heavens, a
beautiful waterfall.
And the waterfall
can be any colors
or a multitude of colors.
It could be reds, and oranges,
and yellows, and greens, blues,
purples, magentas--
whatever you feel
that you would love that
represents a beautiful heavenly
light, a cleansing light.
And the water is a
beautiful temperature.
It's very perfect for you.
And just all of you
can envision now,
envision that at the
top of your head,
and running down the side of
the body, and through the body.
And all these
different colors is
where it goes to certain
areas of the body
where there are
some people's energy
that are stuck inside
you and around you.
And I just want
you to be mindful.
There you go.
I see it going.
And just directing it.
And it also knows
with its intelligence
where to cleanse
out on the inside.
So it's a waterfall.
And the waterfall
just goes through you.
And it takes out.
It cleanses out from the
inside all the debris
from other people, pulls away
all the cords, all the debris.
Cleansing it and cleansing it.
And it goes down the
bottom of your feet,
out your feet to Mother Earth.
And feel all that debris
coming out of your toes,
and your feet, and
also your fingertips.
And just let that cycle--
just this waterfall.
There you go.
Just keep on going with it
and letting all of that debris
from other people, your
own negative thoughts,
your own limitations, own fears,
just going down, going down
and cleansing.
How are you feeling
as you're doing this?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, marvelous.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Share with
us what you're feeling.
>>AUDIENCE: Well,
the first area where
I noticed a big
release was the back.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The
lower back right here.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
It was a little
resistant at first,
but when you prompted
to use different colors,
that was a creative queue that
really helped shift the energy.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
>>AUDIENCE: And could
wash that out better.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Keep on
using that meditation.
And now, I'm going to amp it up.
When I say I'm
going to amp it up,
I'm just going to
bring in some energy.
And I'm just going to clean
you up a little bit over here.
Tell us what you're feeling.
>>AUDIENCE: I'm feeling
a very soft energy
coming down the back of
my head and into the spine
and emanating out from there.
And I feel like it's more of
my own, very own soul essence.
It feels also like
grace-- energy of grace.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Energy of grace.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now right
here and here my love,
in the physical body,
there's a little bit
of a little arthritis,
or a little bit
right here and right here.
Are you aware of that?
>>AUDIENCE: Now I am.
Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I just want to
clear it out a little bit.
It's in the joints.
That's all it is.
And how do I see that?
Well, I feel it intuitively,
and sometimes I'll
see it as particles.
Now, this is not necessarily
someone else's energy
that's in here that I'm feeling.
It might be genetic from
the family line going back.
And we carry that.
The soul brings that
in this life time now.
And I also know in the middle
part of the back, right
around here, there's a little
bit of imbalance going on here.
Are you aware of that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm just going
to bring some energy there.
And just keep on imagining
this is sloughing off.
There you go.
Right.
And did you ever want to
do music in your life?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I see it
right here in your throat
chakra, the expressive
chakra, that there's music,
but you stopped singing.
You stopped the
music at one time.
And I'm going to
say to you, when
you stop the creativity
expression, it just [SWISH],
the color goes right back.
So we're going to
expand that little bit.
And you also have listened
to too many people
to tell you who you are.
And that's not who you are.
Does that make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There also
might be, sometimes you
might find there's a little bit
of arrhythmia with the heart
sometimes.
You understand that?
Because as I see this here, and
I'm just cleansing this out.
And she's doing the work
with the protection.
She's running her energy.
She running the energy.
And she's bringing
it, clearing it out.
And you should start
definitely feeling something.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: Each place
that you worked I feel.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you carry
your mother's energy with you
as well.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
She passed over.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know.
Oh, she's right here, because
you carry your mother's energy.
Now this young
lady asked before,
can you carry the
spirit's energy with you?
No, but there is definitely
a sense sometimes,
if we don't feel as if we've
fulfilled our soul's destiny
with our mother, or
father, or child,
we hold on sometimes
to some guilt.
We hold on sometimes to
some unfinished business.
And guess where it stays, kids?
Right in the emotional centers.
So a lot of the energy
here that I'm cleansing out
is debris from mom, which I
will speak to her in a second.
She's pushy.
She's coming right behind me.
Oh boy, is she strong.
She's strong.
You chose her.
>>AUDIENCE: I did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now
one more thing.
And then, this should
feel pretty clean now.
You should feel much better.
>>AUDIENCE: Very clean.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And kind
of back to yourself,
a little bit more balanced.
>>AUDIENCE: Very balanced.
>>VAN PRAAGH: One more thing.
I just went to the knees.
There's a little bit of
a problem with the knees.
So just, have you had any
trouble physical with knees?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, tweekiness.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
I'm just seeing,
folks, a little bit of debris.
Now again, this
would be something
which is not from somebody else.
This is just your own stuff here
that I'm just cleansing out.
But most of the debris
from other people
that we got to be
very, very careful
are the emotional centers.
That's the mainly thing.
OK.
And I'm just going to
have you stand up, Cheryl.
And I'm going to go like this,
which drops the energy back
to Mother Earth.
And honey, stand right there.
There we go.
OK, my love.
OK, Cheryl, I'll have
you sit down again.
>>AUDIENCE: OK, thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm going
to bring through your mom
with a message for you.
Thanks, Cheryl.
So since you still
have the microphone on,
that will be great.
I want to bring through your
mom for you, if it's OK.
All right, sweetheart?
First of all, let me
tell you, Cheryl, you
look so much better now.
You feel better?
>>AUDIENCE: I feel,
yeah, sparkly.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A little
bit younger and sparkly?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Sparkly,
joyful, younger.
>>AUDIENCE: Everybody
else in the audience,
do you feel a little different?
I want to tell you
that your mom is here
and she's concerned
about your dad.
So there's a concern about him.
And I want to ask if there
was something about him either
going with-- living
with somebody else
or is there a
change in the living
situation with your
father, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Just a
simple yes or a no.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
OK.
And I just want to
tell you that she's,
your mother is involved
with this transition
situation, this
moving situation.
I know he can be very, very
stubborn sometimes about where
he's staying and who
he's living with.
But your mom is
taking care of that.
I'm going to tell
you, mother's head
is affected before
she passes over.
She can't make decisions.
She's-- I don't want
to say dementia,
but I want to say it's a little
bit like her mind is not hers.
>>AUDIENCE: Correct.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Make sense?
Yes.
And I got to tell you,
she's still the same.
She says, here, she said, I
haven't lost a thing over here.
And she said, I found
myself when I got here.
>>AUDIENCE: Yay.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She found
herself when she got there.
Now, would she have had, or does
she have, or had two sisters?
>>AUDIENCE: Three sisters.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Three sisters.
OK.
Is one living, two
over the other side,
or are they all there?
Two over there, one here.
Because she's talking about--
>>AUDIENCE: Oh yes, one
is, yes one is over there.
>>VAN PRAAGH: One is over there.
OK.
So she has two sisters
remaining here.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's
talking about two sisters.
That's what I heard in my head.
So I got to tell you, and I'm
very much connected with them
from the other side of life.
Now, I know that,
like you said, you
haven't been in touch with them.
I don't think she was
really in touch with them
when she was living here.
And I got to tell you that
she's more in touch with them
now than she was
when she was living.
I want to talk about
a sewing machine.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You understand
about that sewing machine?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So she says as
she comes close to me, she said,
she'll understand about
the sewing machine.
And I think she used to love
to use that sewing machine when
she was younger.
And I know that she used
to like to make dresses.
She used to make
clothes for the kids.
And she's telling me about that.
And do you remember a trunk
that was in the house?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
know the trunk?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know that one
time when you were a
little girl, she said,
you hid in that trunk.
So when they come back, when
they come back to me, when
the spirit comes
back, many times
they come back in memories
that they had in the lifetime.
And she goes back, of course,
to a younger time with you,
when things were
happy and joyful.
And I got to tell
you, for some reason,
she was talking about you
were hiding in that trunk.
And they couldn't find you
when it was hide and seek.
But this is what
she's talking about.
Do you remember that?
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
Good, because it's
important that you
remember it to
validate this, yes?
I've got to tell you that
I feel with this lady
not necessarily religious per
se, but I do feel spiritual.
I feel upliftment with your mom.
And I just got to tell you that.
And she's talking to me about
tithing or giving money.
And tithing was very
important to her.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
because I feel like she
has to put money in the
envelope and give it in.
Do you understand that?
And I'm going to tell you
that your mother really
feels like there's a
missionary spirit to her.
So I would not be surprised
in other lifetimes
if she was indeed a
missionary in that way.
Seriously.
And I got to talk to
you about your dad,
because she's going on now
again about your father.
And I know that there's been
either trouble with his foot.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because he's got
to watch his foot.
And I'm not sure.
There were tests
taken, or X-rays.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Um-hum.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I know that she's telling
me it's something either about,
I'm not sure if he
has to use a cane
or he needed help with
walking right after that.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
that he should not be,
that we're concerned about the
hip, falling down, or something
and falling down.
Do you understand?
>>AUDIENCE: Well, he's
had two hip replacements.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He's had
two hip replacements?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because your mom is concerned.
And I'm very honest of
what I bring through.
And my agreement with the spirit
world is if they give it to me,
I have to give it out.
OK.
So I get very, very much
your mom saying to me,
we've got to be careful about
him falling down, and a hip.
So she's talking about that.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
I know that I just
want to go where he's watched.
So he's got to be watched.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Who has
all the encyclopedias
or had the
encyclopedias, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, when
we were growing up.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
weren't you the one
who really wanted to
get those encyclopedias.
And I'm going to tell you,
they were the Britannica
encyclopedias, and it's the
ones where every month you
get another one.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
you remember that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because she's
telling me about that.
And that you looked so forward.
And she said you'd go
out to the post box.
You'd go out to the mail
and make sure about that.
Do you remember this?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good,
good good, good, good.
I just love that with her.
I love that that she
brings that through here,
because it's very real.
Now she's dropping here a pearl.
And she's giving you a pearl.
And it's just a single pearl.
And I'm not sure that
it belonged to her
or she had a-- she did.
OK.
Yes, you understand.
She said you understand
it-- you understand it.
And would you know of anyone
named Betty, or Bessie,
or with this name,
living on this side
or in the spirit world, please?
>>AUDIENCE: A friend of
hers when she was young.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A friend of hers?
OK.
Because I know that she's
with this person over there.
And she's seeing her again.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I'm going to
leave you with that, my love.
OK, Cheryl.
God bless you.
>>AUDIENCE: Wonderful.
Thank you so much.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're welcome.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I have a
gentleman sitting right here,
and I'm going to come between
this man and this man.
You're connected in some way?
Are you brothers in some way?
Are you a friend, that you
knew these-- are you connected?
Your partner.
I love that.
I love the connection
between the two of you.
Love that.
Your dad comes in.
He loves all of you the same.
And I gotta tell you that.
OK.
Someone called up
a doctor or tried
to get some medical
help for him.
>>AUDIENCE: I took care of
dad the last couple of months
of his life-- the last
six months of his life.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Was
there a specialist
he had to go to at one time?
And didn't you bring him to
a specialist at one time?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Some kind
of a series of tests.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I don't know if there
was one point there
was some kind of a
stroke at one point,
or some kind of something.
One part of the body I feel
like is not working correctly.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Who has dad's wallet?
Who took dad's wallet?
Did you take dad's wallet?
Do you have the wallet?
>>AUDIENCE: I know
where it's at, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He's
talking about you
having his picture in a wallet.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that.
So it must be his
picture in his wallet.
>>AUDIENCE: It is.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I don't know if
it's a brownish colored wallet.
>>AUDIENCE: It is.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much,
because I know that's what
he's projecting in my mind.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And he
comes closer and closer.
I know that he keeps on giving
me the feeling that I either
got to move him from
one room to another,
or take him from one place
to another in the house.
>>AUDIENCE: That's correct.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Thank you.
And I want to go to the back
area of the house as well.
OK.
So I want to go toward the
backyard or the back area.
And I want to thank
you for making
it very beautiful for me.
I want to tell you,
I love the window--
looking out the window.
I know you moved
the television set.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you, because he
says that you moved
that television
set so I could see it.
I'm looking out
the window, and you
made it very nice out there.
I know that there were
change in flowers,
or you tried to put some
beautiful flowers around there.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I forgot to
ask your name, and I'm sorry.
>>AUDIENCE: I'm Sean.
>>AUDIENCE: Sean.
And what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Joe.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Joe.
OK.
Joe and Sean.
Great.
Go on.
My boys, I'm proud of my boys.
I'm proud of my boys.
I'm really proud of my boys.
I also want to ask
any of you, why would
I want to go to the East Coast?
Was there some origin-- you
grew up on the East Coast.
>>AUDIENCE: Why would anybody
want to go to the East Coast?
He grew up in the East
Coast-- New Jersey.
>>VAN PRAAGH: New York.
>>AUDIENCE: New Jersey.
Philadelphia.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I
want to go to that area.
I'm going to go to
the East Coast here.
And I know that I
feel at home there.
So it's with him.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
I just want to
feel at home there.
Go on.
He's so excited, but he's not
sure how to communicate this.
But I understand that.
I understand that.
You got to go there again.
He has a very funny
sense of humor,
but he's kind of like,
has a dry sense of humor.
It's a dry wit.
And he said, I can't hear.
So he either had a problem
with hearing toward the end.
>>AUDIENCE: He did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Go on.
And he's met all his
friends over there.
He's met all his
comrades over there.
He's with people, I think he
must've been a military guy.
And he met a lot of these
guys in the military there.
I know there's a booklet
that you have-- someone has,
one of the boys,
kids have-- that
shows a booklet of the
military of his corps
or something he was in.
>>AUDIENCE: The ships.
>>AUDIENCE: UDT.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Whatever that means.
OK.
But I know that
it's a number on it.
And it's a group
of military people.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know that there
must be some kind
of, I don't know,
little medals,
medallions, or something.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
Because he comes in
very proud about that.
And I know the
funeral or memorial
service that was brought up.
He said that was brought up.
And someone must have
read a letter-- a letter.
OK.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Does
that make sense to you?
And I know that your dad would
have either had a commendations
at one point in the military
or some kind of a commendation.
He's very proud of that.
Does that make sense.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, it does.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfect.
That's great.
I want to talk about who in
the family either is a lawyer,
or does legal work,
or doing something
with the contracts-- like
right now, doing something
with a contract--
working in something.
>>AUDIENCE: My younger
brother, Terry, is.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
I know that your dad is
trying to help someone
with a contract out.
Now, I know that the
contract was made once,
and they had to redo a contract
because something in the terms
were not right or
something was not right.
And it's either
the period of time,
or the number
amount, money amount,
but something was not correct.
Is that right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I know it is.
I just know it is.
And I know that this contract
will be a four-page contract.
He shows me.
And I got to tell you that I'm
helping him with this contract.
Do you understand this?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great,
great, great, great, great.
Now, I know that
someone in the kids
would have played basketball
when you were a young kid.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, I did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because I want to talk about
the basketball or the basketball
games.
And your dad's talking
to me about that.
OK.
And I understand that.
Go on.
Do you like horses,
or riding the horses?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes, I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
it's about the horses,
all about the horses.
And I like to be in
horses-- with horses.
And I don't know
if you were gonna
ride as far as I don't
know, for awards,
or showing the horses off,
or something with horses.
But just, do you
love horses then?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Can I just, as
they come here close here,
I have his mother here as well.
And she wants to
say hello to you.
I also get someone
in the spirit world
with the name of M-A name,
like a Margaret, or Maggie,
or a M-A name.
I mean Mary, something
like this, over there.
>>AUDIENCE: My Aunt Mary.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your Aunt
Mary is right over here.
And I'm going to tell you that
the family must be spread out.
They must be spread
out in the country,
because it seems like they're in
different place in the country.
Are there three cities that
they're in, or two different?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>AUDIENCE: Great.
Great, great,
great, great, great.
Yeah.
I tried writing everything
down before I died.
Your dad tried writing
everything down before he died.
Does that make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
know that it would've
been on a legal--
yellow legal pad.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know you'd still
have those notes somewhere.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I know you still have
some of his books somewhere.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
I know he loves books.
And I know he loves to read.
And I know that that's
his whole thing-- reading.
And if I could just take him
and put him in a place, a chair,
with a book, he's fine.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I also go to tell you,
early in his life, early on,
this man tells he
used to love history,
studying about history, and
also about military wars.
And I'm going to tell you
Napoleon wars and Civil War
types of things.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know that
there's a book that he even
has his library collection
about the Civil War.
And if you can
remember-- got you.
Thank you, dad.
Now he's coming very clear.
Thank you.
I know that you would have found
books upon-- after his passing,
you would have gone into
his library or his area
where there were some books.
Does this make sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And if you
don't know now, please
check because I know there
are some thick books there.
And I know one would
be on the Civil War.
OK.
And I need to ask, who's
redoing a basement?
Who's redoing-- do
you understand this?
>>AUDIENCE: That would be me.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So it's
really coming for you.
I know that, yes,
he said you had
trouble or issues with
lighting-- the lighting,
put the lighting up.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you had
to either redo the lighting
or redo the wiring.
>>AUDIENCE: Lee helped
me put up the lights.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You helped put
the lighting up with him?
>>AUDIENCE: Actually,
his partner did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, your partner.
Good.
You did.
So his dad is coming
through here to thank you
about the thing
with the basement,
helping out with the lighting.
And I think you must have
picked out some lights, too,
didn't you.
>>AUDIENCE: You're welcome.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know
that he was aware of that
and he's aware of
putting things together.
He said he puts in
his own two cents.
And I understand that.
Do you guys get married?
>>AUDIENCE: We're going to.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I love it.
He's talking about marriage.
Hold on, because
I'm going to cry.
He knows at one time he
tells me you were going to,
and you couldn't, or
something stopped,
or something--
weren't sure about it.
And now, it's a matter
of going to happen,
and we're just
starting to plan it.
We're just started figuring
things out just recently.
I would say with the past month.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do you understand
that, within the past month?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
he's, I'm going to cry.
He said that he was
influencing you to do it.
He was influencing you to do it.
And you have his 100% blessing.
And you need to hear that.
Do you understand that?
You need to hear that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And coming
from him, I love that.
Because I don't
think necessarily he
understood your life,
or the life, you know.
And he knows things
so much better now.
And he feels like a fool for not
understanding things and seeing
you for who you are and
for who everyone is.
>>AUDIENCE: Wow.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
he said that people
make such a big deal of it.
And there are parts
of dad-- and I'm
being very
compassionate when I say
this-- I don't want
to say he was a bigot,
but I want to say--
but I want to say
was a bit judgmental sometimes.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
just feel with him
as if it's a little old
fashioned, his ways of thinking
and this sort of thing.
But he knows so much better now.
And there's so much
to be proud of.
And love is love is love.
And I want to thank you
for taking care of my son.
I want to thank you for that.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
know that the rings are
very special you're
going to make up.
I know that recently
you were talking
about special kinds of
rings and the design.
And he's just
telling me that there
was some kind of a special
design, intricate design,
that you were
looking at to make.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And that
must've been last week.
It was, wasn't it?
Last week-- he said last week.
>>AUDIENCE: It was.
>>AUDIENCE: James, their
mom just passed a month ago.
I wonder if--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ah, mom
just passed a month ago.
Do we have her here?
She's next to me.
And she's wearing the new dress.
She's wearing a new dress.
So I got to tell you,
she's wearing a new dress.
Why would that Margaret one be
attached to her, or the Mary?
>>AUDIENCE: Mary.
That was her older sister.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh.
There you go.
So she's attached to
her-- she comes with her.
I understand.
Did she die in the night
time, middle of the night,
like early morning, 5:30?
>>AUDIENCE: Mid-morning.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So she's with him.
I'm not sure she can
communicate here yet
or whether she's
going to, because she
has to project and all that.
But can I just say,
she missed him.
She missed him really badly.
And I feel there was a
connection between the two
of them.
And I got to tell you that
they're connected again.
>>AUDIENCE: Good.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I
know that you must
have mother's handkerchiefs
and stuff like this from her
that the family has still.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know still
obviously it's been very new,
but you're still
sorting through things.
And I know there's some--
this is very funny-- old table
cloths, all these table
cloths she collected.
Do you understand this?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And she
loved her dinnerware.
And she loved the napkins.
And it's all cloth stuff.
Do you understand this?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And she definitely
knows you have that.
And she's going to
help you out with that.
She's really going to looking
forward to this wedding.
She's really all about
the wedding, you know.
She really, really is.
Yes, I understand that.
And I'm going to tell you
that your father's helping
her to communicate.
Now, this is really,
really interesting.
And I have a mother
over here in a second.
Hold on.
Hold on mom, mother over here.
There's a spirit-- you
guys' energy is great.
The spirit sometimes,
two or three spirits
come together and meld
a thought and send it.
So if your mom for instance, I
don't feel has a lot of energy
here, your father will
overcompensate and bring
in the same, meld the thought.
So I know that you
were thinking of doing
a remembrance for
those that passed over
in your wedding ceremony.
And I want to
thank you for that.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know that you
wanted to have something of
your dad's and your mom's to be
part of that ceremony.
And I know that you're going
to have some kind of a candle,
because they're showing
me this candle thing.
And it's like a unity
candle or something.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
you remember this?
Yes.
So I know that you're
getting help from the spirit
side of life to have
this, connect this union.
And I love it.
I love it.
I don't know why I want to go
to Hawaii or I want to go--
But they're talking about
you going to Hawaii.
So what does that mean?
>>AUDIENCE: We're going
to get married in Hawaii.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yay.
So I love that.
Whose glasses do you own?
Do you have a pair
of someone's glasses?
Your dad's glasses that you
have a pair of, or your mom's?
Not sure.
Didn't mom have
glasses at the end?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And didn't
someone take them off her
and put them on the night stand?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
I'm being show that.
I got to tell you that
they're right around you.
They're easy to
communicate with.
As far as their energy,
there's not a lot of stuff.
Before we talked
about protection.
We talked about debris.
There's not a lot of
stuff with these people.
And can I say to
you as a medium,
and I'm working with
them, it's so much easier
to work with people
who don't have stuff.
They're easy to come through.
So God bless all of you.
There must be some kind
of a pocket watch also.
You must have some kind of a
pocket watch of your fathers.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
he wants me to tell
you thank you for keeping that.
And thank you, all of you,
for honoring those things.
And the figurines, and these
things, the statuary, you
have that.
You understand?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I want to thank you
for honoring that with them.
So I'm going to leave
you all with that.
And God bless you.
Congratulations.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Isn't
it interesting.
So I had before a horse
that came through.
And you didn't recognize
it, but young lady, you did.
You said this was yours.
Would you mind
standing up, please?
And what is your name, darling?
>>AUDIENCE: My name is Sue.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Sue.
So was it a brown
and white horse?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And did it
have the white in the front
right here?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>AUDIENCE: Because and I don't
know about horses, I'm sorry.
But I know the
white and the brown.
And didn't you own this horse?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
didn't you used
to brush the horse as well?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know that
you would have oftentimes might
have tied up the tail.
>>AUDIENCE: This is correct.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So again,
I don't know horses,
but I'm being shown
this, and I got
to give you what I'm shown with.
There's like a ribbon or
something you tied it up with.
>>AUDIENCE: Exactly.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know if
I can say, it's a show horse.
>>AUDIENCE: It is.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
>>AUDIENCE: It was.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
can I say that there
are blue ribbons
and red ribbons?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The ribbons
that this horse brings here.
And he's demonstrated to me
that-- animals are so great,
because they come in so
unconditionally with love.
And this horse is telling
me that the awards it's won,
it's just that you won
the awards with the horse.
It was a combined effort.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you
never over-taxed the horse.
Do not feel that you over-taxed
the horse, because you did not.
I know that you wanted--
you must have tied up the
what do you call that
hair in the back?
>>AUDIENCE: The mane.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The mane.
You must have tied that up,
like braided it or something.
>>AUDIENCE: Un-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
there must be, yes, there's
a picture of the horse is
projecting in my mind, where
you're standing right
beside the horse
in the front of the horse.
You're like that.
And you have this.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know
that there would
be pictures right
now you have out.
That you actually
have photos out--
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: --of the horse.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And would
you know about the blanket,
that there was a
blanket on the horse?
>>AUDIENCE: The horse was an
Appaloosa, so part of his color
was considered a blanket.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is that what
they called it, a blanket?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I got to tell you that when the
horse or the end of the life
of the horse, I know it's very
hard to put the horse down.
I want to talk to
you about who's
Franks, Francis, or
Frank, or Fran, Franc?
>>AUDIENCE: Francy?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, who's that?
>>AUDIENCE: That's
my childhood friend.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Did you speak
with her recently or were
you talking to her?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And did something
come up about the horse?
Because I know that
the horse is here
and give me something about her.
>>AUDIENCE: It's
not the same horse,
but I had a horse that would
always lay down with her.
>>VAN PRAAGH: With Francy?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
Just her.
Nobody else.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm going to cry.
And I want to talk about
one more thing here.
So can I thank you
from that horse?
And I'm sure all
the other horses,
but that one is the one
I want to thank you.
And I know you still have the
awards up on a wall somewhere.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
hold on-- where
is the one room that you just
by yourself in a TV room,
or a sitting room, or some?
>>AUDIENCE: It's
my meditation room.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, it's
your meditation room.
The horse comes
there all the time.
You must see it in the visions
when you're meditating.
OK.
I'll leave you with that.
Thank you, my love.
If I might, I just want to come
right back here to this lady,
because I feel a mother
very, very strong.
Would you mind
standing, darling?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: What is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Joany.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Joany.
Joany, I have a
mother here for you.
Joany, now why would
I say four people?
Were there one of four?
Are there four kids?
>>AUDIENCE: Four kids.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Good.
Because she's talking
about the four kids.
And I want to give
love to the four kids.
Now, mom comes in.
She's very excited
that you're here.
And she's telling me you
almost didn't make it.
Does that makes sense to you?
And did you see-- what?
Your mother was with
you in the drive here.
>>AUDIENCE: Was she?
Oh, my goodness.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She was with
you in the drive here.
And she said that she
was filling up your mind
with the thought of herself.
And that you sat in the car
and you thought of your mother.
>>AUDIENCE: I did.
I did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's
what she's telling me.
So she said, I was
sitting right next to you.
I had to squeeze in, she said.
She had to squeeze in.
So there must have more
than just one person,
or how many people?
>>AUDIENCE: My
friend was with me.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Were
you the driver?
>>AUDIENCE: No, I wasn't.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
were the driver,
because she was
squeezing in between you.
How funny.
Now, why is she telling
me this was unexpected?
Was her death unexpected or was
there a surprise element to her
passing over?
>>AUDIENCE: It was unexpected.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because she
said it was unexpected.
And that's what she
said-- unexpected.
>>AUDIENCE: Absolutely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I also want to ask
you who Carol is.
Who's Carol or Carolyn?
>>AUDIENCE: A cousin.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A cousin of yours.
Still living on
this side, right?
Good.
I know that she's in
problems or trouble.
And the people over
here-- her mother
must be on the other
side of the light
as well, because her mother
is that other lady that's
coming in.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And that must
be your aunt or something.
So she's coming in here.
And she said, would you
please help Carol out?
She needs some help.
I'm not sure if it's
emotional help that she needs,
but she needs some help.
So would you look
into that, please?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would
you please tell her
that her mother
loves her and she's
sorry she didn't express that
more when she was living.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I want to talk
also about the checkbook.
You must have made a
check out and you either
had to delete the check, or
you put the wrong amount on,
or something just recently
happened with a check and ta
checkbook.
>>AUDIENCE: I just made a
check to pay a Macy's bill.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Was that this
morning or yesterday?
>>AUDIENCE: Yesterday.
I'm carrying it in my purse.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, great.
Because she's telling me
about making that check out.
I understand that.
And I know that you almost
put the wrong date on there.
>>AUDIENCE: I don't know.
I have to look in
my purse now to see.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Look and see.
I'll bet it's the wrong date.
She said there's something
wrong with the check
that she was talking about.
And go on.
And did you just
recently-- she's going on
about either stopping
a credit card
and putting a new credit card
in, but stopping the old credit
card or changing a
credit card over.
>>AUDIENCE: I canceled
one a while ago.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much,
because she's telling
me about that.
And she's happy about that.
I've got to tell you that she
has a very nice complexion,
nice rosy cheeks, your mom.
And she's feeling very good.
I feel like I passed like that.
Suddenly, I go down.
And she said, I'm fine.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She
didn't feel it.
And she was out of the body.
Her father's with her.
I gotta tell you
that-- a father.
And she hadn't seen
him for a long time.
And she really missed him.
And I got to tell you,
there's a connection
with her and her dad.
She really missed him.
So I got to give you that.
I want to ask you, do you
have two children yourself?
>>AUDIENCE: I have three.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
have three children.
Are there two that are close
to age, and then not one?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Like two
years apart or something?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right
>>AUDIENCE: Two
and a half years.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And is one of
them is going to college,
or studying in university,
or starting to go?
>>AUDIENCE: Well, one
just went to a class.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A class.
I got to tell you because
there is something coming up
with your mom was
talking to me about,
one going to a
university or a school,
and that's not
going to be the end.
>>AUDIENCE: I take it back.
My son did go to school.
He's in college.
I'm sorry.
He's taking classes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
They know what
they're talking about.
The living people, forget it.
The dead-- they got it.
>>AUDIENCE: I'm going blank.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I got to tell
you one more thing.
Your father-- and wasn't he
over there before your mom?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Did he pass
away before your mother?
Because I know your father
comes to greet your mother.
Now, I gotta tell
you-- thank you.
I understand what that means.
Got it.
So I know the boy that
went to the university.
So that would be your
son, going to school
or going to university?
Would you please ask
him if he just recently
was looking at a map,
geography, on the internet,
or something about
geography and land.
Because I have your mother, and
I do have your dad behind me
now, telling me
about he's helping
the boy in the university.
And he would have
been doing something
about a foreign country.
I'm not sure if I'm going to
go visit a foreign country,
or I'm looking at it.
But I know that he
was talking to you
about that, now
wasn't he, darling?
>>AUDIENCE: I know
that they want
to go somewhere, like
Tahiti or something.
So I'm sure they were
looking at a maps.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would
you please ask
if he was just
looking at the map?
>>AUDIENCE: I will.
>>VAN PRAAGH: At
7:30 last night.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
I will.
That's specific.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'll
leave it with that.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Thank you, my love.
God bless you.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you
all very, very much.
That was great.
I mean, really.
And we're going to be
there, the spirit's
going to be there
for your wedding.
And we're all going to be there,
too, yes, with happy memories.
And everyone at home remember
also to be very responsible
every day, when you start
your day, to program your day.
Whether you're in the shower or
the bath, remember that energy
and cleanse yourself, cleanse
that self, the body around you,
the body inside you.
And remember that you
need to program yourself
before you start your day.
I always program myself by
saying, "May God go before me
and show me the way.
God is love.
Love is God."
And you're putting out
that vibration of love.
And every single moment of
that day, you'll be in love.
So please, go ahead and do that.
Until next time I see
you, thank you everyone.
And thank you all very much.
Good-bye.